---
layout: archive
title: "Research"
permalink: /research/
author_profile: true
---

# Job Market Paper
[Contagion in The Market for Leveraged Loans](https://francesconicolai.github.io/files/papers/CLOs.pdf)

Collateralized Loan Obligations (CLOs) spread shocks in the market for leveraged loans. After being hit by downgrades, CLOs become forced sellers of otherwise unrelated high quality loans therefore transmitting the shock across the market. Loans sold by CLOs trade at up to 80bps discount compared to otherwise similar loans for up to nine months. The effect cannot be explained neither by selection based on ex-ante nor on ex-post loan characteristics. The price pressure generated by CLOs has real effects: shocked companies due to refinance their loans face an increase in the cost of borrowing in the market of issuance by up to 55bps due to the imperfect ability to substitute away from institutional loans.

# Working Papers
[Revealed Expectations and Learning Biases: Evidence from the Mutual Fund Industry](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3301279)

(with [Simona Risteska](https://risteskasimona.github.io)) 

By inverting the optimal portfolios of mutual fund managers in a fairly general setting, which allows us to partial out the effect of risk aversion and hedging demands, we provide an estimate of perceived expected excess returns and show that they are significantly affected by experienced returns. The effect of past returns is non-monotone: we provide reduced-form and structural evidence of managers displaying recency and primacy bias. Finally, we estimate an average coefficient of relative risk aversion close to unity.

[Living on the Edge: the Salience of Property Taxes in the UK Housing Market](https://papers.ssrn.com/sol3/papers.cfm?abstract_id=3381519)

Taxes that happen concurrently with the purchase are more salient than deferred taxes. Using a sharp geographical discontinuity between London Boroughs, we show that the incidence of property taxes deferred to the future is too small compared to the incidence of stamp duty taxes happening at the moment of buying the property. The difference in incidence implies very large discount rates that cannot be easily rationalized even after accounting for liquidity constraints. The lack of salience at the moment of purchase implies that the burden of the tax will be borne in the future to meet the budget constraint. This implies that there is an optimal tax mix, even though one of the two taxes is more distortionary than the other.

[Something Else](https://github.com/academicpages/academicpages.github.io)
